{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset162 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}{\f6\fnil\fcharset161 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont4\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b\f0\fs24\lang1055 1. What is statistics, and what are branches of statistics?\par
\b0\fs22 Statistics is mathematical science pertaining to the collection, presentation, analysis, and interpretation of data. It is used for:\par
Analyze Primary Data\par
Build a Statistical Model\par
Predict the outcomes\par
The two main branches of statistics are descriptive statistics and inferential statistics.\par
\par
\b\fs24 2. Please explain descriptive statistics.\b0\fs22\par
Helps organize data and focuses on the main characteristics of the data. It provides a summary of data numerically or graphically. It describes the basic features of the data in a study, such as mean, median, mode, SD, correlation.\par
Descriptive statistics are either measures of central tendency or measures of spread.\par
Measures of central tendency: mean, median, and mode\par
Measures of spread: standard deviation, variance, the minimum and maximum variables, range and the kurtosis and skewness.\par
\par
\b\fs24 3. What are the data types? Please explain.\par
\b0\fs22 1. Numerical data represents some quantifiable information that is measurable and is further divided into two subcategories:\par
Discrete data, which is integer based (e.g. number of people)\par
Continuous data, which is decimal based (e.g. price, distance, temperature).\par
2. Categorical data is qualitative data that is used to classify data into categories (think of an enumeration in programming). For example, gender, car brands, country of residence etc.\par
3. Ordinal data represents discrete and ordered units, e.g. champions league rank (1st, 2nd, 3rd), bug priority (low, critical or showstopper), or hotel rating (1\f1\endash 5*).\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24 4.What is variable and what are categorical, discrete, and continuous variables?\par
\b0\fs22 A variable is a characteristic that describes a member of the sample.\par
Categorical variable\par
Categorical variables contain a finite number of categories or distinct groups. gender, material type, and payment method.\par
Discrete variable\par
Discrete variables are numeric variables that have a countable number of values between any two values.\par
Continuous variable\par
Continuous variables are numeric variables that have an infinite number of values between any two values.\par
\par
\b\fs24 5.Please explain population and sample terms. What is the difference between a population and a sample?\b0\fs22\par
Population: A population is the group from which data is to be collected.\par
Sample: A subset of population\par
A population describes all of the members of a group, while a sample is a subset of members that time and resources allow you to measure.\par
\par
\b\fs24 6.What is the Central Limit Theorem and why is it important?\b0\fs22\par
The CLT states that the mean values from a group of samples will be normally distributed about the population mean, even if the population itself is not normally distributed.\par
The central limit theorem states that, when samples from a data set with a known variance are aggregated, their mean roughly equals the population mean.\par
Thus, even though we might not know the shape of the distribution where our data comes from, the central limit theorem says that we can treat the sampling distribution as if it were normal.\par
Suppose that we are interested in estimating the average height among all people. Collecting data for every person in the world is impossible. While we can\rquote t obtain a height measurement from everyone in the population, we can still sample some people. The question now becomes, what can we say about the average height of the entire population given a single sample. The Central Limit Theorem addresses this question exactly.\par
\par
\b\fs24 7.What are the measures of variability (dispersion)? Please explain.\b0\fs22\par
Range: Range is the difference between the lowest and the highest number of a dataset. To calculate the range, we subtract the minimum from the maximum value.\par
It shows us how varied the dataset is, i.e. how spread it is, but again, like mean, it is really sensitive to outliers.\par
Variance: Variance measures how spread out the data is. It describes how far values lie from the mean. Calculated as the sum of square distances from each point to the mean.\par
\f2\u9679?\f3\lang1033           Calculate mean.\par
\f2\u9679?\f3           Take difference between each value and the mean\par
\f2\u9679?\f3           Square this difference.\par
\f2\u9679?\f3           Sum all differences\par
\f2\u9679?\f3           Finally, divide by the total number of observations.\par
There\rquote s a difference between the SAMPLE variance and the POPULATION variance\par
subject to Bessel's correction (\f4\u-10187?\u-9073?\f3  \f5\u8722?\f3  \f4\u-10187?\u-8241?\f3 )   \par
For full population, we divide by the number of data points (n)\f1\u8202?\par
samples, we divide by the number of data points minus 1(n - 1)\par
Standard Deviation: Standard deviation (represented by the greek letter sigma\u8202?\emdash\u8202?\f6\lang1032\'f3) is just the square root of the variance. It is a measure of dispersion in terms of how many standard deviations it is away from the mean, and used to judge which data point is an outlier.\par
Benefit: Same units as the sample and meaningful to talk about.\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24\lang1055 8.What is an interquartile range?\b0\fs22\par
The IQR is a number that indicates how spread the middle half (i.e. the middle 50%) of the dataset is and can help determine outliers. It is the difference between the Q3 and Q1.\par
Generally speaking, outliers are those data points that fall outside from the Q1 \f1\endash  1.5 x IQR and Q3 + 1.5 x IQR range.\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24 9.What are levels of measurement?\b0\fs22\par
Based on the nature of variables, it is classified into four types:\par
Nominal Variables: They are ones which have two or more categories, and it is impossible to order the values. Predetermined categories and can\rquote t be sorted.\par
Ex gender and blood group\par
Ordinal Variables: They have values in a logical order. However, the relative distance between two data values is not clear. Can be sorted and lacks scale.\par
Ex the size of a coffee cup \f1\endash  large, medium, and small\par
The ratings of a product \endash  bad, good, and best\par
Interval Variable: With an interval scale, equal differences between scale values do have equal quantitative meaning. An interval scale provides more quantitative information than the ordinal scale. The interval scale does not have a true zero point. Provides scale and lacks a \lquote zero\rquote  point.\par
Ex. The Fahrenheit degree scale used to measure temperature. The distance between two compartments in a train.\par
Ratio Variable: They are similar to interval scales in that equal differences between scale values have equal quantitative meaning. It has a true zero point. Ex the system of inches used with a common ruler.\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24 10.What is the difference between covariance and correlation?\b0\fs22\par
Correlation and Co-variance both are used as a measure to check how two variables change with respect to each other.\par
Covariance:\par
- measure of change of how two variables change with respect to each other.\par
- It is unit dependent.\par
- Difference in scale can output different co-variance.\par
- It varies from - infinity to infinity\par
- Example: Height vs weight(kg) and Height vs weight(lbs) will have different covariance values\par
Correlation :\par
- unit measure of change between two variables change with respect to each other. ( Basically it\rquote s normalized covariance value)\par
- It is unit independent.\par
- Difference in scale doesn\rquote t affect the correlation value\par
- It varies from -1 to 1.\par
- Example: Height vs weight(kg) and Height vs weight(lbs) will have same correlation values.\par
\par
\b\fs24 11.What do you understand by the term normal distribution?\b0\fs22\par
It is a set of continuous variables spread across a normal curve or in the shape of a bell curve. It can be considered as a continuous probability distribution and is useful in statistics. It is the most common distribution curve and it becomes very useful to analyze the variables and their relationships when we have the normal distribution curve. The normal distribution curve is symmetrical. The non-normal distribution approaches the normal distribution as the size of the samples increases. It is also very easy to deploy the Central Limit Theorem. This method helps to make sense of data that is random by creating an order and interpreting the results using a bell-shaped graph.\par
Data is usually distributed in different ways with a bias to the left or to the right or it can all be jumbled up. However, there are chances that data is distributed around a central value without any bias to the left or right and reaches normal distribution in the form of a bell shaped curve. The random variables are distributed in the form of an symmetrical bell shaped curve.\par
Properties of Normal Distribution:\par
Unimodal -one mode Symmetrical -left and right halves are mirror images Bell-shaped -maximum height (mode) at the mean Mean, Mode, and Median are all located in the center Asymptotic.\par
\par
\b\fs24 12.For what purpose are z and t tests used in statistics?\b0\fs22\par
We use Z- and t-Distributions to answer the question \ldblquote  What is the probability that two samples come from the same population?\par
Either test assess whether mean of two groups are statistically different from each other or not.\par
z-test follows normal-distribution, which is appropriate when the sample size is large, and the population standard deviation is known.\par
T-test follows t-distribution, which is appropriate when the sample size is small, and the population standard deviation is not known.\par
\par
\b\fs24 13.What do you mean by confidence interval in statistical analysis?\par
\b0\fs22 It is an interval estimate for a parameter value. It is constructed in a way so that, in the long run, a given proportion of these intervals will include the unknown true parameter value. The proportion is given by the "level of confidence". For instance, you can expect that at least 90% of (a large series of) 90% confidence intervals will include the unknown true values of the parameters.\par
\par
\b\fs24 14.What is a p-value? Why is it important?\b0\fs22\par
When you perform a hypothesis test in statistics, a p-value can help you determine the strength of your results. P-value is a number between 0 and 1. Based on the value it will denote the strength of the results. The claim which is on trial is called Null Hypothesis.\par
\par
\b\fs24 15.What are measures of central tendency?\par
\b0\fs22 Mean: The mean (represented by the greek letter mu\f1\emdash  \f6\lang1032\'ec) is the average of a dataset. To calculate the mean, we sum up all the values and divide it by the number of values.\par
Median: The median is the middle of a dataset. To calculate the median, we sort all the values (in ascending or descending order) and take the one that is in the middle.\par
If there is an even number of data points, then we calculate the mean of the two that fall in the middle.\par
The median is less susceptible to outliers than the mean, and hence we need to take into consideration how the data distribution looks like, to choose which one to use. The median is much closer to most of the values in the series!\par
Mode: The mode is the most common/occurring value in the dataset. To calculate the mode, we locate the number that occurs more frequently.\par
Mode is usually only relevant to discrete numerical data\f1\u8202?\emdash\u8202?not to continuous data.\par
\b\fs24\par
\f0\lang1055 16.What is hypothesis testing? What are hypothesis testing types? Please explain with examples.\par
\b0\fs22 A hypothesis is some kind of assumption and hypothesis testing is an inferential statistical technique to determine whether there is enough evidence in a data sample to infer that a certain condition holds true for the entire population. It is used to test the validity of a claim that is made about a population.\par
Take a random sample\par
Analyze the properties of the sample\par
Test whether or not the identified conclusions correctly represent the population\par
A hypothesis is generated about a population parameter.\par
Null Hypothesis: The null hypothesis is assumed to be true unless there is a strong evidence to the contrary. This claim that\rquote s on trial is called the null hypothesis.\par
Alternative Hypothesis: The alternative hypothesis is assumed to be true when the null hypothesis is proved false. The alternative hypothesis is the one you would believe if the null hypothesis is concluded to be untrue.\par
Framing Hypothesis:\par
\f2\u9679?\f3\lang1033  At the start of the experiment, the null hypothesis is assumed to be true.\par
\f2\u9679?\f3  If the data fails to support the null hypothesis, only then can we look to an alternative hypothesis\par
* If testing something assumed to be true, the null hypothesis can reflect the assumption:\par
Claim:  \ldblquote Our product has an average shipping weight of 3.5kg.\rdblquote\par
Null hypothesis: average weight = 3.5kg\par
Alternate hypothesis: average weight \f5\u8800?\f3  3.5kg\par
* If testing a claim we want to be true, but can\rquote t assume, we test its opposite:\par
Claim:  \ldblquote This prep course improves test scores.\rdblquote\par
Null hypothesis: old scores \f5\u8805?\f3  new scores\par
Alternate hypothesis: old scores < new scores\par
The null hypothesis should contain an equality (=, \f5\u8804?\f3  ,\f5\u8805?\f3 )\par
The alternate hypothesis should not have an equality (\f5\u8800?\f3 ,<,>)\par
\par
\b\f0\fs24\lang1055 17.What do you understand by Type I vs Type II error?\b0\fs22\par
Type I error is committed when the null hypothesis is true and we reject it, also known as a \lquote False Positive\rquote . Type II error is committed when the null hypothesis is false and we fail to reject it, also known as \lquote False Negative'.\par
\par
\b\fs24 18.What Is the Goal Of A/B Testing?\b0\fs22\par
It is a statistical hypothesis testing for randomized experiment with two variables A and B. The objective of A/B Testing is to detect any changes to the web page to maximize or increase the outcome of an interest. Example: Identify the click-through rate for a banner ad.\par
A/B testing is a fantastic method for figuring out the best online promotional and marketing strategies for business. It can be used to test everything from website copy to sales emails to search ads An example of this could be identifying the click-through rate for a banner ad.\par
\b\fs24\par
19.Why statistical knowladge are important in data science?\par
\b0\fs22 As Josh Wills once said,\par
\ldblquote Data Scientist is a person who is better at statistics than any programmer and better at programming than any statistician.\rdblquote\f3\lang31\par
}
 